  ## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, April 7, 2025, [1-2 pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day ü™ë
* Rosie Le Faive üß†
* Dani Kroon üìù
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:

* Chris Day
* Dani Kroon
* Michael Bolam
* Seth Shaw
* Tyrica Jy'nae Terry Kapral
* Meaghan Cash
* Elisabeth Ball
* Rosie Le Faive
 



### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Group Chat: Pre-Migration Clean-Up Projects
* Open Conversation


### Notes:
* News from Chris and Leadership Group 
	Aubrey the new communication manager, will join the MIG at a future meeting.
	Islandora is going to be online this year
	PITT is doing a presentation about migration. They also started ingesting to their I2 production site.
	From Tech Call, talk to update EDTF field to allow for better sort in search results.

* Metadata migration clean-up
Good presentation on OpenRefine  [Core Metadata Interest Group - Core](https://connect.ala.org/core/viewdocument/recording-available-why-would-i-u?CommunityKey=a38252d1-29e5-42e7-8b5d-a43a19f99aea&tab=librarydocuments)
Clean up taxonomies to normalize and ingest taxonomies before content. During ingest, set ingest so as not to create taxonomy terms. Found that local terms do not align. Tyrica developed code to do a lookup and replace.
Names or part of names in multiple MODS fields, difficult to rectify names and to bring the elements together. Look for different versions of names. Names can also appear in subjects.
Create an ingest file to about 5000 objects so the system doesn‚Äôt get bogged down.
Alternatively, create taxonomies during ingest for smaller collections and then use the merge for clean-up.

* UNVL migration from CONTENTdm
Islandora Online: [CONTENTdm to Islandora 8; Remediation & Migration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rON8-Dq_lY8)


### Next meeting
* May 5, 2025
