  ## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, February 3, 2025, [1-2 pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day ü™ë
* Rosie Le Faive üß†
* Dani Kroon üìù
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:

* Rosie Le Faive
* Chris Day
* Dani Kroon
* Michael Bolam
* Stephanie Porrata
* Jenny Bradshaw
* Joe Corall
* Meaghan Cash
* Elisabeth Ball
* Seth Shaw


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Welcome Rosie back as MIG co-convener
* Agenda
* Using Dublin Core as Metadata schema
* Local authorities vs. linked authorities
* Open Conversation 


For later discussion:  https://www.cni.org/topics/special-collections/re-envisioning-the-digital-repository-showcasing-our-exciting-islandora-solution

### Notes:
* Announcement:
* Leadership Group is extending the deadline for the presentation proposal for IslandoraCon. Get your proposals in!!
* Jenny shared that their I2 site is going live today, digital.lib.uiowa.edu
* Michael, their site is ready to load taxonomies to I2 with content to follow. 4.5 million objects that will take a while.
* Using Dublin Core as Metadata schema:
* Would it be helpful to have a site based on Dublin Core
* Dublin Core represents a ‚Äúlighter‚Äù version, which may be helpful for those who want a ‚Äúsimpler‚Äù metadata schema.
* Downside loose specificity with Dublin Core
* Local Authorities vs. linked authorities:
* How do you deal when the authorized version of a term differs from the local term?
* In I2, any term will be added to the taxonomy. Rosie showed a site where the local term differs from the authorized term. Enter a local term into taxonomy linked to the authorized vocabulary/term.
* Wish for the scenario where entering the terms URI will automatically update the taxonomy term.
* Remember, indexing taxonomy terms is possible in I2.
* Open Conversation:
* Question about moving data from one field to another: yes, it is possible. Depending on internal workflows and set-up.
* Stephanie voiced frustration about the save button not always working when saving. It may be related to various display modes used on the site.
* Last reminders:
* Put in proposals for IslandoraCon
* If you have any MIG topic suggestions, please get in touch with one of the co-convenors or put topic ideas in the Metadata Slack Channel.
* Watch the linked video for ideas on expanding Islandora, which is a possible future topic of discussion.


### Next meeting
* March 3, 2025
