## Islandora Metadata Committee Agenda
### Monday, November 3, 2025, [1-2 pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)  (happy no more daylight savings time!)
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Rosie Le Faive ü™ë
* Dani Kroon üìù (Mike B substituted)
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
  * Maintaining Membership List
  * Meeting invitations were sent to members of the Committee
  * Call for Co-conveners
* [Documentation Outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JEsVfDVTbTZO3RrOhwyDYLDyQ939U3gK7vQlIyC9noY/edit?usp=sharing)
  * [Editable Version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n7WQ-eTN5gGCNU6gWvid62FDkZy6BFfaXtFWyfqEqZk/edit?usp=sharing) 
* Adding Volume and Issue to the Starter Site
  * [Draft pull request](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/islandora-starter-site/pull/220)
  * Remove solr indexing?
  * Add RDF predicates for [volume](https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/terms?q=volume), [issue](https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/terms?q=issue)
  * PR against REST OAI-PMH to include volume, issue in MODS?
* Typed Relation fields
  * [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zS_WeQdFIVFYobTeD4ub-Ky5B_wMIKSAdwx8A1iAVEY/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p)
* Open Conversation

### Notes:
* Announcements
  * Membership Lists - If you would like to be a member, put name in chat or contact Rosie to be added. You can attend a meeting even if you aren't a member
  * Meeting invites went out members.
  * Looking for a third Co-Convener. Reach out to Rosie if interested
* Documentation Discussion
  * Attempt to make documentation that is more friendly to non-Drupal experts.
  * Open discussion about documentation outline - concerns that maybe it is still to Drupal-ish.
  * Field Types moves up because it needs to be determined right after the label. Some of the labels are confusing/non-intuitive.
    * Maybe high-level discussion of the difference between direct (free/open text fields) and controlled fields (attached to taxonomies or other forms of controlled terms).
    * Some fields maybe will be lower priority, like Binary or Number, may not have as much documentation.
  * Content Types
    *  Maybe just link to external information and/or highlight the difference between Repo Item and other content types
  *  Model
    * Model, Weight, Member of are baked in Islandora structural fields. Should be covered early.
* Adding volume and issue to Starter Site
  * Rosie created a [pull request](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/islandora-starter-site/pull/220) and recorded a screen capture of the process. Rosie will convert it to a youtube video for the community.
  * RDF - finding a good predicate for Volume and Issue. [Bibo volume](https://dcmi.github.io/bibo/#:volume) looks good, but [Bibo issue](https://dcmi.github.io/bibo/#:issue) could be a problem due to the domain :Issue.
  * Possible that in Bibo volume is is more about multivolume sets.
  * Checked out DC Bibliographic Citation 
  * Also looked at mods:titleInfo and mods:part for possibilities.
  * Did not come up with a solution, more research is needed. 
* Typed Relation fields
  * Time ran out before Rosie presented this. 

### Next Meeting
* December 1, 2025
