## Islandora Metadata Committee Agenda
### Monday, December 1, 2025, [1-2 pm EST](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&)
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Rosie Le Faive ü™ë
* Dani Kroon üìù 
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)
* ["Metadata" page Documentation Draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n7WQ-eTN5gGCNU6gWvid62FDkZy6BFfaXtFWyfqEqZk/edit?usp=sharing) 
---

#### Attending:
* Sawyer Borror
* Tyrica Jy'nae Terry Kapral
* Dara Virks
* Chris Day
* Aubrey Shanahan
* Seth Shaw
* Elisabeth Bell
* Kare Hart


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
  * Maintaining Membership List
  * Meeting invitations were sent to members of the Committee
  * Call for Co-conveners
* [Editable Version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n7WQ-eTN5gGCNU6gWvid62FDkZy6BFfaXtFWyfqEqZk/edit?usp=sharing) 
* Adding Volume and Issue to the Starter Site - [Draft pull request](https://github.com/Islandora-Devops/islandora-starter-site/pull/220)
  * Add "Source Title" field? 
  * TODO: PR against REST OAI-PMH to include volume, issue, (source title?) in MODS
* Typed Relation fields
  * [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zS_WeQdFIVFYobTeD4ub-Ky5B_wMIKSAdwx8A1iAVEY/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p)
* Dream Big - What would metadata in Drupal look like at its best?
* Open Conversation

### Notes:
* Announcements - None
* Maintaining membership list - If you wish to be a member of the committee, please enter your name in that chat or contact Rosie. Please add Dara Virks.
* Meeting invitations were sent to members of the Committee ‚Äì please share your email so Rosie can send an invitation to you.
* Call for Co-conveners ‚Äì Please volunteer to be the third co-convener
* Documentation, please see document [Editable Version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n7WQ-eTN5gGCNU6gWvid62FDkZy6BFfaXtFWyfqEqZk/edit?usp=sharing)
* Adding Volume and Issue to the Starter Site
* Add "Source Title" field? Best term to use. We picked Parent Publication Title
* TO DO: PR against REST OAI-PMH to include volume, issue, (source title?) in MODS.
* See [Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zS_WeQdFIVFYobTeD4ub-Ky5B_wMIKSAdwx8A1iAVEY/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p)
* Dream Big - When we first started, we thought Drupal fields were the best way, but we might be losing metadata. Now is the time to extend Drupal to what we need
* MODS, display label, one field for abstract or description. Allowing fields to have display labels. One field with different labels chosen by the ingester.
* Hierarchical geographical terms to keep terms nested from big to small. Multiple sections within one hierarchy of geographical fields. In the current Drupal, values are being mixed with higher values. Values should display together as a hierarchy.
* Field type to export content to citation.
* A word of caution: if we get to customize, it will not work well with Workbench, merging, and other Drupal features.
* Crosswalk to Dublin Core


### Next Meeting
* January 5, 2026
