 ## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, July 7, 2025, [1-2 pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Rosie Le Faive ü™ë
* Dani Kroon üìù
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:


### Agenda: 
* Announcements
  
* Discuss the LG proposal to change MIG from an interest group to a committee. Email:

I‚Äôm writing on behalf of myself and Nicole as co-chairs of the LG to ask about a proposed change to the Metadata Interest Group (MIG). Since you only recently joined the LG, you might not know that we‚Äôve been working on some restructuring of governance groups to support the Islandora Framework, foster community activities and further the strategic priorities of the Board.
The MIG has, for some time now, undertaken a very high level of work related to the functionality of Islandora in how it manages metadata. We‚Äòd like the MIG to consider becoming a Committee (rather than remaining an Interest Group) in order to recognize the value of this effort and make sure it continues into the future. We believe that it is time to elevate this work and recognize it as intrinsic to the success of Islandora, and maintain a seat on the LG where it can have input into strategic activities and planning. Basically, this would entail designating a Chair for a set period of time (at least a year), and the Chair would need to attend regular LG meetings (right now those are once a month). There would be an expectation that this new Metadata Committee would also meet regularly, keep agendas and be prepared to participate in decision-making as needed - much as you have already been doing.
We‚Äôre going to propose and recommend that Interest Groups continue to be part of the community organizational structure, and they will be directly supported by Aubrey in her role as Community Manager. The IG's will be a conduit to share community-based input via Aubrey to the IF Governance/LG rather than having a seat themselves. IG‚Äôs will continue to be encouraged to come together around specific topics for information exchange, mentorship and best practices, etc.
These proposed changes will be brought to the upcoming LG meeting to ensure a full discussion. In the meantime, we wanted to get this proposal to you to think about and hopefully discuss with the other members of MIG for feedback. It looks like your next MIG meeting overlaps with the LG meeting next week, so potentially you may be able to forward them this email and get some initial thoughts at that time? We can follow up with you afterwards as needed.
We really appreciate your consideration of this, and of course if you have any immediate questions or thoughts feel free to reply or reach out to us on Slack, we'd be happy to meet or chat. Our larger goal here is to prepare a proposal in time for the July AGM to share to the community that outlines all of this with some structure for feedback.
I asked some follow-up questions and got these responses:
Q: What is the work that you see us doing that relates to the functionality of Islandora, after the 5-or-so years ago development of whatever you want to call the metadata profile that comes with the Starter Site?
A: a few things come to mind (this isn't definitive by any means):
Ensure that the metadata profile evolves along with Islandora
Provide input on and help LG make decisions on best practices for metadata as it relates to Islandora
work with DIG and Aubrey as CM (we‚Äôve asked DIG to consider switching to a committee as well) to make sure there‚Äôs documentation and it‚Äôs up to date, perhaps through community sprints (as an example)
Identify issues, and/or share concerns that other committees and LG should be aware of where there are interdependencies 
Generally bring metadata expertise into the larger planning conversations
Q: Does the Metadata Committee ‚Äúhaving a Chair‚Äù mean no longer having three (or two, right now) Co-Conveners?
A: With regards to working within the LG structure, it‚Äôs probably best that there‚Äôs a single representative. In terms of managing the convening and activities of the group/committee, we don‚Äôt have any strong opinions on that, so if having co-convenors helps with facilitating activities, there‚Äôs no reason not to keep doing that.
Q: Does being a committee mean that it is no longer appropriate for this Metadata group to engage in information exchange, mentoring, best practices, etc?
A: Nope, there‚Äôs no reason not to engage in all of that! We‚Äôre just trying to define expectations on committees versus IG‚Äôs, and establish that IG‚Äôs don‚Äôt need to report up into the LG. We should be clear that if the members of MIG don‚Äôt want to become a committee, or feel that there are better ways to get to the same outcomes, that‚Äôs ok! In that case, the LG would ask the MIG to help us define what kind of metadata expertise, practice, standards, documentation, etc. best supports strategic work and the Islandora framework, and what the right group/relationship is.
Q: Does the new structure offer any more input on what code gets developed/maintained? Will it help us solve some of the feature failures/trade-offs/catch-22‚Äôs that we find ourselves in?
A: This is definitely where we feel a new structure is likely to have real impact. One of the other recommendations that will be brought to LG for discussion is the formation of a Roadmap Committee and how to move forward on development and maintenance; if we had a Metadata Committee then we could build in expectations around coordination with that and other committees to address such areas with specific input.

* Documentation update from Rosie:
 
I took a look at the Metadata.md page of the islandora documentation and felt it could use some attention. I've created a fairly thorough edit (nb. i've "only" made it down to Typed Relation). You can see my changes 2 different forms
Preview version with my edits
Diff in Github to see what changed
Feel free to add comments in Github if you have an account, and/or bring suggestions to the July 7 MIG meeting! We'll discuss it then.
islandora.github.ioislandora.github.io
Metadata - Islandora
Documentation for Islandora
islandora.github.ioislandora.github.io
Metadata - Islandora
Documentation for Islandora

* Group Chat: 
	Documentation
	Managing documentation
	User Roles, who does what. Dividing tasks
* Open Conversation
* August 4th meeting?


### Notess


### Next meeting
* August 4, 2025?
