  ## Islandora Metadata Interest Group Agenda
### Monday, March 3, 2025, [1-2 pm EDT](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=1%20pm&tz=Toronto&) 
#### Join Us Virtually!
* Zoom Link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/93923574947?pwd=Z1kyY01veFJNbFZFVUg4Mm1jS1FyZz09

---
## Chair Roster
* Chris Day ü™ë
* Rosie Le Faive üß†
* Dani Kroon üìù
---

#### Working Documents:
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Configuration](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N37GSwiDl_DSH9-n3BhWLUtjZohOg2udGJJlnZ8BmWQ/edit#gid=0)
* [Islandora Starter Site Metadata Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/starter-site-metadata-configuration/)
* [CLAW MIG MODS simplified mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18u2qFJ014IIxlVpM3JXfDEFccwBZcoFsjbBGpvL0jJI/edit#gid=0)
* [Example MODS for CLAW mapping](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1C2Xie7HUDSgRT5v4ldoJvlNdoXz2GHAPvL3PE3TOKW8/edit#gid=1829081124)
* [Draft Recommendations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15qSO9YcALtYSqd6CUuGx0t8FwUJ5pPwVPz0PA5rU898/edit#heading=h.f9r6knw0rjvu)
* [Feedback on Mapping from ICG, Part 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OpqMMCXM1TFXgsr4yyTQ_cH9DabnD31p7JnuTRQl28/edit?invite=CMWvruEI&ts=5e66437f)
* [Wants/Needs/Questions Open Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12Kpb6826TNPzzMuyPS0sESa9TLnmljQmeioWbaPeEdA/edit)
* [Working Ideas](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Metadata-Interest-Group/blob/main/working_docs/ideas_and_topics.md)
* [MIG I8 Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cfPYFVV9qvvz2VjBRdYUN0CB7AyVDuG-GYavQ27DuBk/edit#heading=h.9fr9xw70meix)

---

#### Attending:

* Rosie Le Faive
* Chris Day
* Dani Kroon
* Chris Day
* Jenny Bradshaw
* Meaghan Cash
* Michael Bolam
* Tryica Ty'nae Terry Kapral
* Lorne
* Angelina Crave
 



### Agenda: 
* Announcements
* Open Conversation
* Purpose of MIG
* Brainstorm topics for discussion


For later discussion:  https://www.cni.org/topics/special-collections/re-envisioning-the-digital-repository-showcasing-our-exciting-islandora-solution

### Notes:
* Announcements
* Chris attended the leadership meeting, but there was nothing to report.
* Open conversation about who the MIG is and what the MIG wants to become.
* MIG meetings provide helpful information and tidbits.
* Realtime space to discuss metadata issues
* Educational about metadata, specifically in Islandora
* Having a mix of people, developers, and metadata folks is nice. Great for talking about problems and solutions.
* Different points of view on different projects give us all a path to learn more.
* Future Discussion topics
  -	What do you do with taxonomy data? Update to taxonomy data, authority linking, extract data from other sources, long-term goals, and authority source field.
  -	Dates, edtf dates, what do the date fields mean?
  -	Clean up projects before and after migration
  -	Follow-up from IslandoraCon presentations
* Post agenda idea on metadata slack channel
* Meeting schedule to stay the same, once a month
* Open conversation
* Rosie ‚Äì made mentioned edtf processor developed by Seth Shaw to pull all dates together and then display/sort by one of those dates.




### Next meeting
* April 7, 2025
